README.md, before:

# bazel-buildkite-example

An example that builds a simple Python monorepo with Bazel and Buildkite! :kite:

[![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/57e0fc02c633be7eae646cb9b212cbf24043ba1618f89b6384.svg)](https://buildkite.com/nunciato/bazel-buildkite-example)

This simple hello-world example uses Bazel to build and test and a Python library (a `py_library` package, in Bazel parlance) and a Python script (or `py_binary`). The binary depends on the library, and the library gets built and packaged (by Bazel) as a Python wheel.

The repo is configured with a Buildkite [pipeline](https://buildkite.com/nunciato/bazel-buildkite-example) that combines [`bazel query`](https://bazel.build/query/quickstart) with Buildkite [dynamic pipelines](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/configure/dynamic-pipelines) to compute a pipeline definition at runtime based on the content of each commit. A [Buildkite plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/bazel-annotate-buildkite-plugin) also converts [Bazel Event Protocol (BEP)](https://bazel.build/remote/bep) output into Buildkite [annotations](https://buildkite.com/docs/apis/rest-api/annotations) and appends them to each build. Python packages are uploaded as Buildkite [artifacts](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/configure/artifacts). 

[![The Buildkite pipeline that builds this repository](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/896f7bf7-9387-4f72-a27f-0f25e78f16a5)](https://buildkite.com/nunciato/bazel-buildkite-example)

## Build all packages

```bash
$ bazel build //...

INFO: Analyzed 6 targets (0 packages loaded, 0 targets configured).
INFO: Found 6 targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.127s, Critical Path: 0.00s
INFO: 1 process: 1 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 1 total action
```

## Build individual packages

```bash
$ bazel build //library/...     
                                             
INFO: Analyzed 4 targets (1 packages loaded, 2167 targets configured).
INFO: Found 4 targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.477s, Critical Path: 0.00s
INFO: 1 process: 1 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 1 total action

$ bazel build //app/...    
INFO: Analyzed 2 targets (42 packages loaded, 417 targets configured).
INFO: Found 2 targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.651s, Critical Path: 0.31s
INFO: 9 processes: 9 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 9 total actions
```

## Query for package's reverse dependencies

```bash
$ bazel query "rdeps(//..., //library/...)"

//app:main
//app:test_main
//library:hello
//library:hello_wheel
//library:hello_wheel.dist
//library:hello_wheel.publish
//library:hello_wheel_dist
//library:test_hello
```

## Run all tests 

```bash
$ bazel test //...

INFO: Analyzed 6 targets (0 packages loaded, 0 targets configured).
INFO: Found 4 targets and 2 test targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.095s, Critical Path: 0.00s
INFO: 1 process: 1 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 1 total action
PASSED: //app:test_main
INFO: From Testing //app:test_main
==================== Test output for //app:test_main:
Hey! there's a message from the Python library: 'Hello, world!'
================================================================================
PASSED: //library:test_hello
INFO: From Testing //library:test_hello
==================== Test output for //library:test_hello:
.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.000s

OK
================================================================================
//app:test_main                                                 (cached) PASSED in 0.1s
//library:test_hello                                            (cached) PASSED in 0.3s

Executed 0 out of 2 tests: 2 tests pass.
```

## Generate the Buildkite pipeline

And annotate the build with some custom Markdown.

![An image of a Buidkite annotation created from BEP output.](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2debc75f-5553-4f50-8366-f02bda6f7660)

```bash
$ python3 .buildkite/pipeline.py

{
    "steps": [
        {
            "label": ":bazel: Build and test //library/...",
            "commands": [
                "bazel test //library/...",
                "bazel build //library/... --build_event_json_file=bazel-events.json",
            ],
            "plugins": [
                {
                    "bazel-annotate#v0.1.0": {
                        "bep_file": "bazel-events.json",
                        "skip_if_no_bep": true
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

Commit message:

Show the target graph in the README

README.md, after:

# bazel-buildkite-example

An example that builds a simple Python monorepo with Bazel and Buildkite! :kite:

[![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/57e0fc02c633be7eae646cb9b212cbf24043ba1618f89b6384.svg)](https://buildkite.com/nunciato/bazel-buildkite-example)

This simple hello-world example uses Bazel to build and test and a Python library (a `py_library` package, in Bazel parlance) and a Python script (or `py_binary`). The binary depends on the library, and the library gets built and packaged (by Bazel) as a Python wheel.

The repo is configured with a Buildkite [pipeline](https://buildkite.com/nunciato/bazel-buildkite-example) that combines [`bazel query`](https://bazel.build/query/quickstart) with Buildkite [dynamic pipelines](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/configure/dynamic-pipelines) to compute a pipeline definition at runtime based on the content of each commit. A [Buildkite plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/bazel-annotate-buildkite-plugin) also converts [Bazel Event Protocol (BEP)](https://bazel.build/remote/bep) output into Buildkite [annotations](https://buildkite.com/docs/apis/rest-api/annotations) and appends them to each build. Python packages are uploaded as Buildkite [artifacts](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/configure/artifacts). 

[![The Buildkite pipeline that builds this repository](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/896f7bf7-9387-4f72-a27f-0f25e78f16a5)](https://buildkite.com/nunciato/bazel-buildkite-example)

## Build all packages

```bash
$ bazel build //...

INFO: Analyzed 6 targets (0 packages loaded, 0 targets configured).
INFO: Found 6 targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.127s, Critical Path: 0.00s
INFO: 1 process: 1 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 1 total action
```

## Build individual packages

```bash
$ bazel build //library/...     
                                             
INFO: Analyzed 4 targets (1 packages loaded, 2167 targets configured).
INFO: Found 4 targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.477s, Critical Path: 0.00s
INFO: 1 process: 1 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 1 total action

$ bazel build //app/...    
INFO: Analyzed 2 targets (42 packages loaded, 417 targets configured).
INFO: Found 2 targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.651s, Critical Path: 0.31s
INFO: 9 processes: 9 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 9 total actions
```

## Query for package's reverse dependencies

```bash
$ bazel query "rdeps(//..., //library/...)"

//app:main
//app:test_main
//library:hello
//library:hello_wheel
//library:hello_wheel.dist
//library:hello_wheel.publish
//library:hello_wheel_dist
//library:test_hello
```

## Run all tests 

```bash
$ bazel test //...

INFO: Analyzed 6 targets (0 packages loaded, 0 targets configured).
INFO: Found 4 targets and 2 test targets...
INFO: Elapsed time: 0.095s, Critical Path: 0.00s
INFO: 1 process: 1 internal.
INFO: Build completed successfully, 1 total action
PASSED: //app:test_main
INFO: From Testing //app:test_main
==================== Test output for //app:test_main:
Hey! there's a message from the Python library: 'Hello, world!'
================================================================================
PASSED: //library:test_hello
INFO: From Testing //library:test_hello
==================== Test output for //library:test_hello:
.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.000s

OK
================================================================================
//app:test_main                                                 (cached) PASSED in 0.1s
//library:test_hello                                            (cached) PASSED in 0.3s

Executed 0 out of 2 tests: 2 tests pass.
```

## Visualize a target graph

For example, to generate a PNG of the `//app:main` target's dependencies:

```bash
$ bazel query --noimplicit_deps 'deps(//app:main)' --output graph | dot -Tpng -o graph.png
```

![A PNG image of the //app:main target's dependencies](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/049eebde-cfc9-4497-a7d2-e7e0f1764253)

Requires [GraphViz](https://graphviz.org/).

## Generate the Buildkite pipeline

And annotate the build with some custom Markdown.

![An image of a Buidkite annotation created from BEP output.](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2debc75f-5553-4f50-8366-f02bda6f7660)

```bash
$ python3 .buildkite/pipeline.py

{
    "steps": [
        {
            "label": ":bazel: Build and test //library/...",
            "commands": [
                "bazel test //library/...",
                "bazel build //library/... --build_event_json_file=bazel-events.json",
            ],
            "plugins": [
                {
                    "bazel-annotate#v0.1.0": {
                        "bep_file": "bazel-events.json",
                        "skip_if_no_bep": true
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
